added glmakie section. (#81)
JuliaDataScience/JuliaDataScience: contents/data_vis_makie_glmakie.md

## GLMakie.jl {#sec:glmakie}

Visualising data in 3D is also a common practice to gain insight from your data. 
A simple plot include of course, lines and points. So we will start with those and since we already know how layouts work, we will put that into practice. 

### Scatters and lines

> For scatter plots we have two options, the first one is `scatter(x,y,z)` and the second one is `meshscatter(x,y,z)`. 

Author: A was between "scale in the axis direction" and 
"elongates in the axis directions", but I left the first one because it conveys how much elongations is applied to the markers,  "the scale".

In the first one markers don't scale in the axis directions but in the later they do, becuase they are actual geometries in 3D space. See next example. 

```
using GLMakie
GLMakie.activate!()
```

```jl
@sco JDS.scatters_in_3D()
```

Note also, that a different geometry can be passed as marker, i.e., a square/rectangle and `colormap` for them as well. 
In the middle panel one could get perfect spheres by doing `aspect = :data` as in the last panel.

And doing `lines` or `scatterlines` is also straightforward. 

```jl
@sco JDS.lines_in_3D()
```

Plotting a `surface` is also easy to do as well as a `wireframe` and `contour` lines in 3D. 

> ### Surfaces, wireframe, contour, contourf and contour3d 

Author: I general I don't like to have backticks in titles, although is a valid function in Makie. I think is better to have them just the main text.

> ### Surfaces, wireframe, contour, contourf and contour3d 

Reviewer: OK

To show these cases we use the following `peaks` function.

```jl
@sc JDS.peaks()
```

> Whose output for the different plotting functions is

Author: not sure, but I think is `Whose`, @rikhuijzer what do you say?

> Whose output for the different plotting functions is

Reviewer: Hey guys @rikhuijzer and @lazarusA. I have a translator friend and she said that it is "which", so we can change this without problem

```jl
@sco JDS.plot_peaks_function()
```

> But this data can also be plotted with a `heatmap(x,y,z)`, `contour(x,y,z)` or `contourf(x,y,z)`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But it can also be plotted with a `heatmap(x,y,z)`, `contour(x,y,z)` or `contourf(x,y,z)`:
```

This data is ambiguous

```jl
@sco JDS.heatmap_contour_and_contourf()
```

> And by changing the `Axis` to an `Axis3`, these plots will be automatically be in the x-y plane. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, by changing `Axis` to an `Axis3`, these plots will be automatically be in the x-y plane:
```

```jl
@sco JDS.heatmap_contour_and_contourf_in_a_3d_plane()
```

> Something else that is easy to do is to mix all this plotting functions into just one plot, namely 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Something else that is easy to do is to mix all this plotting functions into just one plot, namely:
```

```jl
@sco JDS.mixing_surface_contour3d_contour_and_contourf()
```

> Not bad, right? From there is clear that  any `heatmap`'s, `contour`'s, `contourf`'s or `image` can be plotted into any plane.

Reviewer: I could not find the `image` in the page. Shall we keep it?

Author: yes, I want to include it. Probably, is better is also include that in the example.

Reviewer: Yeah them we should do an `image` example

> ### Arrows and streamplots

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Arrows and Streamplots
```

Are we going to use backticks then we can "un"-TitleCase the headings?

Author: As as said before, I would prefer it that way, without backticks in titles.

> Another plots that might be useful are `arrows` and `streamplot` which are important when we want to know the directions that a given variable will follow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`arrows` and `streamplot` are plots that might be useful when we want to know the directions that a given variable will follow.
See a demonstration below:
```

```
using LinearAlgebra
```

```jl
@sco JDS.arrows_and_streamplot_in_3d()
```

> Other interesting examples are a  `mesh(obj)`, a `volume(x, y, z, vals)`, and a  `contour(x, y, z, vals)`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Other interesting examples are a `mesh(obj)`, a `volume(x, y, z, vals)`, and a `contour(x, y, z, vals)`.
```

> ### Meshes and volumes 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Meshes and Volumes 
```

> 

Reviewer: We should have a introduction small text. I don't like to start a heading with code. What you think?

Author: Yes, I will do it.

```
using GeometryBasics
```

```jl
@sco JDS.mesh_volume_contour()
```

> Note that here we are plotting to meshes in the same axis, one transparent sphere and a cube. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that here we are plotting to meshes in the same axis, one transparent sphere and a cube.
```

> Up to here, this covers most of the use cases in 3D, just a few are missing. Type for example `?linesegments`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Up to here, this covers most of the use cases in 3D, just a few are missing. You can find more examples in the `?linesegments` docstring.
```

> Taking as reference the previous example one can do the following custom plot with spheres and rectangles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Taking as reference the previous example one can do the following custom plot with spheres and rectangles:
```

```
using GeometryBasics, Colors
```

```jl
@sco JDS.grid_spheres_and_rectangle_as_plate()
```

> Here the rectangle is semi-transparent due to the alpha channel added to the RGB color. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here the rectangle is semi-transparent due to the alpha channel added to the RGB color.
```

> The rectangle function is quite versatil, for instance  3D boxes are easy do implement which in turn could be used for plotting a 3D histogram. See next working example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The rectangle function is quite versatile, for instance  3D boxes are easy do implement which in turn could be used for plotting a 3D histogram.
See our next example:
```

```jl
@sco JDS.histogram_or_bars_in_3d()
```

> Note, that you can also call `lines` or `wireframe` over a mesh object. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note, that you can also call `lines` or `wireframe` over a mesh object.
```

> ### Filled line, band

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Filled Line and Band
```

> For our last example we will show how to do a filled curve in 3D with `band` and some `linesegments`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For our last example we will show how to do a filled curve in 3D with `band` and some `linesegments`:
```

```jl
@sco JDS.filled_line_and_linesegments_in_3D()
```

> And with this our journey doing 3D plots has come to an end. If you combine all this tools amazing things can be created. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally our journey doing 3D plots has come to an end.
You can combine everything we exposed here to create amazing 3D images! 
```

> Now, it's time to dig into the basic rules to create animations. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, it's time to dig into the basic rules to create animations.
```

```jl
@sco JDS.mixing_surface_contour3d_contour_and_contourf()
```

Not bad, right? From there is clear that  any `heatmap`'s, `contour`'s, `contourf`'s or `image` can be plotted into any plane.

### Arrows and Streamplots

`arrows` and `streamplot` are plots that might be useful when we want to know the directions that a given variable will follow.
See a demonstration below:

```
using LinearAlgebra
```

```jl
@sco JDS.arrows_and_streamplot_in_3d()
```

Other interesting examples are a `mesh(obj)`, a `volume(x, y, z, vals)`, and a `contour(x, y, z, vals)`.

### Meshes and Volumes 

Drawing Meshes comes in handy when you want to plot geometries, like a `Sphere` or a Rectangle, i. e. `FRect3D`.
Another approach to visualize points in 3 space is by calling the functions `volume` and `contour`, which implements [ray tracing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ray_tracing_(graphics)) to simulate wide variety of optical effects. See next examples.

```
using GeometryBasics
```

```jl
@sco JDS.mesh_volume_contour()
```

Note that here we are plotting to meshes in the same axis, one transparent sphere and a cube.

> Up to here, this covers most of the use cases in 3D, just a few are missing. You can find more examples in the `?linesegments` docstring.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
So far, we have covered most of the 3D use-cases.
You can find more examples in the `?linesegments` docstring.
```
"here" is, also, used in the sentence above.

Taking as reference the previous example one can do the following custom plot with spheres and rectangles:

```
using GeometryBasics, Colors
```

```jl
@sco JDS.grid_spheres_and_rectangle_as_plate()
```

> Here the rectangle is semi-transparent due to the alpha channel added to the RGB color.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here, the rectangle is semi-transparent due to the alpha channel added to the RGB color.
```

The rectangle function is quite versatile, for instance  3D boxes are easy do implement which in turn could be used for plotting a 3D histogram.
See our next example:

```jl
@sco JDS.histogram_or_bars_in_3d()
```

Note, that you can also call `lines` or `wireframe` over a mesh object.

### Filled Line and Band

For our last example we will show how to do a filled curve in 3D with `band` and some `linesegments`:

```jl
@sco JDS.filled_line_and_linesegments_in_3D()
```

> Finally our journey doing 3D plots has come to an end.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finally, our journey doing 3D plots has come to an end.
```

### Meshes and Volumes 

Drawing Meshes comes in handy when you want to plot geometries, like a `Sphere` or a Rectangle, i. e. `FRect3D`.

> Another approach to visualize points in 3 space is by calling the functions `volume` and `contour`, which implements [ray tracing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ray_tracing_(graphics)) to simulate wide variety of optical effects. See next examples.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another approach to visualize points in 3 space is by calling the functions `volume` and `contour`, which implements [ray tracing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ray_tracing_(graphics)) to simulate wide variety of optical effects.
See the next examples:
```
